<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1><a href="Tableofcontents.xhtml"><strong>Ebook Bonus:</strong> Original Short Story — ‘Sweet Like Cotton Candy’</a></h1>
<hr class="sigil_split_marker" />
<p>Even in a city where minimal social interaction is the norm, some believe that a community’s existence hinges on the tradition of festivals, no matter how much the customs of a village society are forgotten.</p>
<p>Even in an apartment complex not far from Shibuya station.</p>
<p>It was the last Sunday of July. The festival began at precisely 5 pm.</p>
<p>In the modest space beside the parking lot in front of the residential building, speakers were set up, endlessly playing the Tokyo Ondo<a epub:type="noteref" id="footnotech13_1" href="#FTch13_1"><i><b>[1]</b></i></a>(was it?). A digital tablet was connected to the speakers.</p>
<p>Stalls were lined up, albeit not many of them. Children with insatiable curiosity and sparkling eyes darted from one to the next.</p>
<p>It was a summer festival for the apartment’s residents.</p>
<p>“They did this last year? I don’t remember,” Ayase-san said.</p>
<p>“It’s just for a day. Easy to forget.”</p>
<p>“Did you forget too, Asamura-kun?”</p>
<p>“Well, yeah, last year I did.”</p>
<p>That was a lie.</p>
<p>While Ayase-san often stayed in her room on weekends, I usually went to cram school or work, so naturally, I had noticed the festival, clearly visible from the entrance. But at this time last year, Ayase-san and her mother had only been living with us for about a month. We were still figuring out our relationship. It didn’t feel right to invite her to the modest apartment festival.</p>
<p>“Do you wanna eat something? Although, there’s just yakisoba<a epub:type="noteref" id="footnotech13_2" href="#FTch13_2"><i><b>[2]</b></i></a>, cotton candy, and okonomiyaki<a epub:type="noteref" id="footnotech13_2" href="#FTch13_2"><i><b>[2]</b></i></a>.”</p>
<p>It’s probably typical of an apartment complex festival.&#160; Heck, a summer festival event at a mall might even have more stuff and variety.</p>
<p>“I think we still have some yakisoba in the fridge,” she replied seriously.</p>
<p>I tried to remember what we had in there. Not the instant cup yakisoba, but the bagged ones you cook in a pan. And enough for four people.</p>
<p>“Yeah, we do.”</p>
<p>“Plus, there’s not many vegetables in this one.”</p>
<p>I glanced at the yakisoba served up at the stall, noting the token amount of cabbage.</p>
<p>When Akiko-san and Ayase-san make it, they put in so much cabbage, carrots, and bean sprouts that you can’t even see the noodles. Indeed, our family’s yakisoba feels way healthier. I guess the same can be said about the okonomiyaki.</p>
<p>But for elementary school age kids, it’s a feast.</p>
<p>Children excitedly tugged at their parents’ clothes, saying, “I want this!” and “Buy that!” as the sky dimmed to a shade of light ink. The lanterns hanging around the perimeter lit up, their LEDs mimicking the flicker of candlelight.</p>
<p>“Do you want something, Asamura-kun?”</p>
<p>“Not particularly.”</p>
<p>She tilted her head.</p>
<p>“So you’ll eat even if you don’t want to?”</p>
<p>“Yeah, because it’s more memorable that way. They say that memories are harder to forget when they’re tied to emotions.”</p>
<p>“So if you remember it as being delicious, you’ll remember the festival?”</p>
<p>“That’s part of it,” I said, scratching the tip of my nose.&#160;</p>
<p>“But?”</p>
<p>“But more than that, I want to remember walking here together, with you.”</p>
<p>It wasn’t the festival itself I wanted to remember, but the fact that we were walking side by side, a year into our relationship.</p>
<p>“You’re so sweet, like cotton candy—” Ayase-san said.</p>
<p>“Let’s get some cotton candy then?”</p>
<p>Yeah, I guess you need a special machine for cotton candy, so it makes sense to buy it from a stall.</p>
<p>“Okay. Well... that’s not what I meant though.”</p>
<p>Ayase-san nodded, so I lined up at the stall and bought a big bag of cotton candy. We walked around the venue one more time, taking turns eating it.</p>
<p>As the sky gradually darkened, the wind began to blow, driving away the heat of the day, and making the wind chimes at the stalls tinkle gently.</p>
<p><em>Ting</em>, <em>Ting</em>. <em>Ting</em>.</p>
<p>As we left the stalls behind and walked back towards the entrance, Ayase-san said softly, “That was really sweet.”</p>
<hr class="sigil_split_marker" />

<aside epub:type="footnote" id="FTch13_1">
      <p><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnotech13_1"><sup>[1]</sup></a> A traditional Japanese song and dance associated with Tokyo. It’s a popular song at Bon Odori, which are dances held during the Bon Festival, a Japanese Buddhist event to honor the spirits of one’s ancestors. Participants typically dance in a circle around a tower (yagura) with taiko drummers, moving to the rhythm of the song.</p>
    </aside>

<aside epub:type="footnote" id="FTch13_2">
      <p><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnotech13_2"><sup>[2]</sup></a> <em>Yakisoba:</em> Popular dish made of stir-fried noodles with vegetables and often meat, seasoned with a savory sauce. <em>Okonomiyaki:</em> A Japanese savory pancake made with flour, eggs, shredded cabbage, and various fillings, grilled and often topped with sauces and mayonnaise. </p>
    </aside>

</body>
</html>