<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
   <h1><a href="Tableofcontents.xhtml">July 22nd (Thursday) — Asamura Yuuta</a></h1>
<hr class="sigil_split_marker"/>
<p>Climbing up the dimly lit stairs, we were hit with the intense sunlight of a bright, clear day.</p>
<p>The baseball field, which spread out fan-shaped from home plate, was covered in grass both in the infield and outfield, and shimmered green under the blazing sun. Only the four bases and the pitcher’s mound showed hints of brown dirt peeking through.</p>
<p>The sound of a brass band rang out loudly, as if piercing the sky.</p>
<p>The Suisei High baseball team, led by Maru, were gearing up for their match here. It was the fourth round of the East Tokyo regional qualifiers for the National High School Baseball Championship. Meaning, this match would decide whether they played in the summer Koshien tournament. A victory here would land them in the top sixteen, the best achievement our school had seen in years… or so I heard from the excited Yoshida standing next to me.</p>
<p>“Check it out, Asamura! Isn’t it awesome that the entire field is grass!? I wonder if it’s hard to maintain?”</p>
<p>“Seems like artificial turf. I heard they recently renovated most of the facilities.”</p>
<p>I was sure of it, actually, since I’d looked it up earlier. And low and behold, the infield seats spreading out before us looked brand new and very clean.</p>
<p>“Oh, cool. Hey, I’ll go grab us some good seats!” Yoshida said, leaving the shaded entrance and dashing off towards the stands.</p>
<p>There were six of us who had come to support Maru. Me and Ayase-san, of course, then Class Rep and Satou-san, whom Ayase-san had invited, Yoshida, whom I’d invited, and Makihara-san, whom he’d invited.</p>
<p>We’d all met up at the station nearest to the stadium and walked here together.</p>
<p>I glanced behind me.</p>
<p>Makihara-san looked lost, clearly out of her element. She didn’t really know anyone here besides Yoshida. It felt as though she was a fish out of water—or so I thought anyway.</p>
<p>Class Rep gently placed her hands on Makihara-san’s shoulders.</p>
<p>“Yuka-chan, aren’t you gonna follow Yoshida?”</p>
<p>“Sh-should I?”</p>
<p>“Oh, he’s obviously trying to find a good seat for you. I can tell. Trust me, you should go after him now.”</p>
<p>Class Rep sounded like a matchmaking aunt.</p>
<p>“You’re right. I’ll go after him.”</p>
<p>Makihara-san, gently pushed by Class Rep, trotted off into the sunlight in the direction Yoshida had gone.</p>
<p>But man, it was amazing Class Rep was already on a first-name basis with Makihara-san, considering they’d only just met. All in the short time from our rendezvous at the station to our arrival at the stadium. That’s the mysterious power of Class Rep, I suppose. No wonder people referred to her by that title more often than by her actual name.</p>
<p>“They both left, huh?”</p>
<p>It was Ayase-san. Satou-san was beside her. Both looked pretty worn out from the heat. <em>I wonder if they’re okay.</em></p>
<p>“Well, there’s still time. And since Yoshida went to secure seats, we can probably just wait and cool off here. What do you wanna do?”</p>
<p>“Hmm.”</p>
<p>“I wonder if Narasaka-san’s group has already arrived?” Satou-san asked.</p>
<p>“I think they’re around. Can’t spot them, though,” I answered vaguely.</p>
<p>I tried to spot Narasaka-san—who’d organized this cheer squad—in the stands, but from this tight entrance between the concourse and the seating, I couldn’t pinpoint her.</p>
<p>“Maaya’s over by the concourse,” Ayase-san said while holding up her smartphone. She probably got a message on LINE.</p>
<p>“I’m gonna go say hi to Maaya. What about you, Asamura-kun?”</p>
<p>“Alright then... I’ll go grab seats with Yoshida.”</p>
<p>Given that Narasaka-san had invited me, I probably should go with her. But for now, it’s best to split up. I mean, Ayase-san is closer to Narasaka-san anyway.</p>
<p>Ayase-san glanced at Class Rep and Satou-san, silently asking, “What will you guys do?” with her eyes.</p>
<p>“Oh, I’ll go too! Asamura-kun, I’m counting on you to find us good seats!”</p>
<p>“I’ll come too.”</p>
<p>With that, they headed off, the girls happily following behind Ayase-san.</p>
<p>I headed off into the stands to find Yoshida and Makihara-san.</p>
<p>In hindsight, I felt a bit relieved that Ayase-san and the other two went over to Narasaka-san’s group. I wasn’t sure I could keep up a conversation with that many girls by myself. If that had happened, I might’ve ended up only talking to Ayase-san, which could’ve made things awkward for the other two.</p>
<p>Now then, should I go find some good seats as requested?</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p>Our seats were on the first base side (to the right when looking from behind home plate). Narasaka-san told us that Suisei High’s cheer squad would gather here.</p>
<p>The spectator seats were set up on both the first base side and the third base side, from near the home base to the front of the outfield, with a total of about three thousand seats. All seats were unreserved.</p>
<p>There were no stands in the outfield. There was no roof, so all the sound seemed to escape into the blue sky above. If it rained, all the spectators would get wet.</p>
<p>Near the outfield, the brass band was warming up. Based on what Narasaka-san told us, the actual cheer squad and cheerleading team would gather on that side. We’d been told to gather on the opposite side, closer to the home base.</p>
<p>The seats were filling up decently. It felt pretty crowded, considering it was just a qualifier. I’d definitely be incredibly nervous with so many people watching me if I were playing. But, problem is, I don’t know which seats are good. It’s my first time watching a baseball game. I probably should’ve followed Yoshida. Where is he?</p>
<p>“Oi, Asamura!”</p>
<p>I heard my name being called as I was scanning the seats. I saw Yoshida waving. When I went over to him, I didn’t see Makihara-san next to him.</p>
<p>“Huh, where’s Makihara-san?”</p>
<p>“She went to reapply her sunscreen. I mean, look at this sun. Can’t really blame her for not wanting to hang out in it for too long.”</p>
<p>“Oh, I see.”</p>
<p>“And look, since you’re here, someone wanted to say hi.”</p>
<p>“Ah.”</p>
<p>There was a guy who’d been sitting there for a while, waiting for our conversation to wrap up.</p>
<p>“Yuuta-kun, long time no see.”</p>
<p>A guy who looked refreshed despite the heat. Shinjo. Does that mean Narasaka-san’s group has taken seats around here?</p>
<p>“A-ah, um, long time no see.”</p>
<p>I gave him a slight wave in greeting, and he returned a slightly awkward, sheepish smile before glancing over to his side. I had noticed that there was a girl sitting next to him. She bowed her head. I reflexively nodded back, but I didn’t recognize her face. I hadn’t seen her at the pool last summer either. Apparently, she was an acquaintance of Shinjo’s… <em>Should I properly introduce myself?</em></p>
<p>Reading my confused look, Shinjo straightened up and gestured towards the girl.</p>
<p>“This is Kobayashi-san. We’re in the same class.”</p>
<p>Kobayashi-san bowed her head again as she was introduced.</p>
<p>She had bright, mid-length brown hair. She wore earrings that looked like seashells. While she didn’t exactly look like a gyaru, she had a sophisticated look about her.</p>
<p>“Um, we started dating recently.”</p>
<p><em>Wow... Dating, huh? So she’s his girlfriend?</em></p>
<p>Kobayashi-san burst out laughing as if she couldn’t hold it in any longer.</p>
<p>“Keisuke, seriously. I always think this, but even though I’m happy you’re introducing me, can you stop using my last name with ‘-san’ added? It sounds like you’re introducing me to your parents or something.”</p>
<p>“Don’t laugh. I’m still not used to introducing you to people.”</p>
<p>“Yeah, yeah. I’ve gotten used to it though.”</p>
<p>Kobayashi-san playfully patted Shinjo’s back, making him laugh shyly.</p>
<p>Apparently, they address each other by their first names, so they must have a very good relationship. Wait, wasn’t Shinjo trying to confess to Ayase-san or something…?</p>
<p>I briefly met his gaze. His eyes narrowed, and he rose to his feet, leaning in to whisper to me.</p>
<p>“It’s been over half a year since then, man,” he said with a hint of annoyance.</p>
<p>Looks like he cottoned on to what I was thinking. By “since then,” he probably meant the time when Shinjo had confessed his feelings for Ayase-san. <em>Am I that easy to read?</em></p>
<p>“Ah, no, my bad. I didn’t mean it like that.”</p>
<p>My reply came out as a quiet, awkward mumble. I regretted thinking about something so rude, especially since he was now dating someone else.</p>
<p>“Hey, are you two having secret guy talk? Very suspicious.”</p>
<p>Kobayashi-san playfully nudged Shinjo, pretending to pout.</p>
<p>“It’s nothing, really.”</p>
<p>“Very suspicious.”</p>
<p>The pair of them started to playfully tease each other. Yoshida and I exchanged glances and decided to make a quick exit.</p>
<p>Going off what Yoshida suggested, since he’d watched games like this before, we settled into seats near the middle of the first base side. I shot Ayase-san a quick message to let her know where we were. Yoshida headed down to the concourse to check on Makihara-san.</p>
<p><em>Wow, has it really been half a year? Time flies.</em></p>
<p>That much time had passed since Shinjo confessed his feelings for Ayase-san to me. But should I say it’s “only” half a year or “already” half a year?</p>
<p>I believe he was genuine about his feelings back then. But within those six months, he found someone new and was laughing with her like that. To be fair, there’s no rule saying you have to continue harboring feelings for someone who rejected you.</p>
<p>It did get me thinking, though. People’s hearts are fickle. Like a wound healing over time or like an apple eventually falling from a tree, feelings change organically. It’s neither good nor bad.</p>
<p>Shinjo’s feelings probably didn’t change overnight. At first, there might’ve been a time when he couldn’t forget her. But as the days went by, new encounters might have come along.</p>
<p>People’s hearts change with the passage of time and changes in the world around them.</p>
<p>If that’s the case…</p>
<p>I took a slow, deep breath.</p>
<p>…Could she, my biological mother, have felt the same way?</p>
<p>I have no intention of sympathizing with her. Shinjo’s story revolves around being rejected, whereas what that person did was cheating. They’re totally different. I won’t defend deceitful actions, period.</p>
<p>But maybe, in a lengthy marriage, small cracks that were invisible at first slowly grow larger and eventually become huge fissures that tear people’s hearts apart.</p>
<p>And if that’s the case—</p>
<p>“Asamura, heat getting to you?”</p>
<p>My body jolted in surprise as I heard the voice. Yoshida and Makihara-san were looking at me with concern.</p>
<p>Seems like they managed to find each other without any issues.</p>
<p>I felt a sticky droplet on my cheek, and only then realized I’d been clenching my fist tightly and sweating profusely.</p>
<p>“...No, I’m fine.”</p>
<p>“Don’t push yourself, man. Here.”</p>
<p>He handed me a sports drink as he sat down behind me. It was cold.</p>
<p>“Narasaka-san got those for everyone,” Makihara-san, who was sitting next to Yoshida, said.</p>
<p>That means Ayase-san… isn’t here yet.</p>
<p>“If you’re looking for Ayase-san, she’s still with Narasaka-san.”</p>
<p>“Ah, I see.”</p>
<p>It’d been a while, so they must’ve had a lot to catch up on.</p>
<p>“But Narasaka-san... I mean, she’s really something, isn’t she?” I commented as I twisted the bottle cap off.</p>
<p>“Absolutely,” agreed Yoshida, “I’d heard the rumors, but the way she handles things is seriously master-level. It’s kinda scary. Don’t ya think, Yuka?”</p>
<p><em>Hold on just a minute, Yoshida. I never said she was scary.</em></p>
<p>Makihara-san gave him a wry smile, saying, “Maybe.”</p>
<p>Not long after, Class Rep and Satou-san showed up, followed by Ayase-san a little later. Since Class Rep and the others had left a seat open beside me, Ayase-san sat down in it. It looked like Narasaka-san and her group were seated a little ways away, around where Shinjo was sitting.</p>
<p>Narasaka-san and a few other students carried what looked like cooler bags. Those must be the sports drinks they’d brought. And there were so many of them.</p>
<p>Ayase-san leaned over and peered into my face.</p>
<p>“...Is something wrong?”</p>
<p>I was surprised. Yoshida hadn’t noticed, but she had.</p>
<p>“I’m fine,” I lied.</p>
<p>I didn’t mention the unsettling thought I had earlier. The hypothesis that no matter how close a couple is, they will eventually break up.</p>
<p>Yoshida and Makihara-san are dating. So are Shinjo and Kobayashi-san. And Ayase-san and I, too.</p>
<p>Nobody becomes a couple intending to break up. Yet if people’s feelings change, is there no way to resist it?</p>
<p>The game started as a pitcher’s duel, with both teams holding the score at zero for the first two innings.</p>
<p>“They’re off to a good start,” Yoshida commented from behind me.</p>
<p>I turned my head and glanced back.</p>
<p>“Oh really?”</p>
<p>“Jyouryoku Academy is a regular in the district’s top four and has a rich history of being in the Koshien, so they’re a strong team.”</p>
<p>Yoshida, a regular sports enthusiast, seemed to know a lot about high school baseball too.</p>
<p>“So they have experience in Koshien, huh…?”</p>
<p>Just hearing that made them sound like a tough opponent. I guess that’s the power of reputation?</p>
<p>“Kinda like how you brace yourself when you hear a best-selling author’s got a new book out?”</p>
<p>“Not sure about your analogy there, Asamura.”</p>
<p>“R-really?”</p>
<p>“And get this, they’ve got players now who are expected to go pro. What were their names again…? Can’t remember. But the general consensus is Jyouryoku’s pretty much expected to win.”</p>
<p>“Reallyyy? Must be frustrating to hear that even before the match even starts,” Makihara-san said with genuine frustration.</p>
<p>“Well, Suisei High rarely advances past the top sixteen.”</p>
<p>Still, they were putting up a good fight so far.</p>
<p>“It’s probably because of our pitcher, right? Jyouryoku’s one is good, but so is ours.”</p>
<p>Yoshida added that it might be thanks to our catcher. <em>So, you mean because of Maru?</em></p>
<p>Not knowing much about baseball, I didn’t know if I should take Yoshida’s word for it. But even from where I sat, it was clear Maru was going all out.</p>
<p>From our infield seats near home base, although distant, I could make out the players’ expressions—well, not in much detail, to be fair. Catchers wear masks, but I could see Maru actively giving instructions to his teammates.</p>
<p>Every move he made was precise, and you could feel the determination as he chased the ball. He took off his mask to chase a high foul ball, running full tilt towards first base—right in front of where we were sitting. He slid on the ground and stretched out his mitt, trying to make the catch… But sadly couldn’t grab it and bit his lip in frustration.</p>
<p>Watching Maru play his heart out and directing his teammates, I was honestly a bit surprised. When we were in the same class until last year, he always seemed pretty laid-back, like the kind of guy who wouldn’t bother with unnecessary stuff. Yet on the field, his face was intense, giving no hint of resignation, even against a stronger team. Even his attempts to catch fouls spoke volumes about his dedication.</p>
<p>From what Yoshida said, Suisei High didn’t usually make it to the top ranks. So, in regional qualifiers, we’re kind of treated like underdogs.</p>
<p>Going just by the odds, they’re opponents we couldn’t beat. Regardless of hope or cheering, it felt like a game where we were pretty much set up to lose. Yet, here we were, with the game locked at zero all.</p>
<p>The atmosphere was electric, as cheers from both sides rose. Members of Suisei High’s school brass band were set up on the side closest to our outfield. Around them were members of the cheering squad dressed in school uniforms and cheerleaders. Close by, there were also players who didn’t quite make it onto the bench.</p>
<p>There was, of course, the same thing on the opposite side of the field, with a cheer squad for Jyouryoku Academy there. Their setup was pretty much the same as ours, but the most notable difference was the sheer number of players who didn’t make it onto the bench. As you’d expect from a team that’s regularly in the top four, there were almost a hundred of them in uniforms.</p>
<p>“But in terms of the number of supporters, it looks like we’re about even, aren’t we?” I said, scanning the spectators.</p>
<p>Yoshida chimed in, offering an explanation. He said winning a fourth round match was a given for them, so their supporters weren’t out in full force. For us, though, a win would mean a rare spot in the top sixteen, so our side was already very excited. That difference in motivation balanced out the number of attendees.</p>
<p>“Makes sense.”</p>
<p>“You know, it’s like, when you beat someone who everyone thinks is gonna win, it feels so darn good~” Class Rep said.</p>
<p>“Pretty much, yeah. We really need Maru to step up,” Yoshida said.</p>
<p>Makihara-san nodded in agreement, saying, “He really needs to give it his all.”</p>
<p>After getting through the top of the third inning, Suisei High finally got a hit in the bottom half. They bunted it, making it one out and a runner on second base.</p>
<p>Then it was Maru’s turn at the plate. He swung the bat with his big body a couple of times before stepping into the batter’s box. Being right-handed, his expression was clearly visible from the first base side.</p>
<p>“MARUUU! YOU DO CAN ITTT! KNOCK THEM DOWNNN!”</p>
<p>Just then, a particularly loud cheer rang out.</p>
<p>Whoa, whoa, whoa. Who was <em>that</em>?</p>
<p>“M-Maaya!?”</p>
<p><em>Huh? </em>I followed Ayase-san’s gaze and saw a girl shouting fervently near where I’d met up with Shinjo. Oh, she sat down. She must’ve stood up in her enthusiasm and just realized it. She quickly bowed apologetically to those behind her.</p>
<p>“Narasaka-san really can get heated, can’t she?” Class Rep said, sounding surprised.</p>
<p>“That true?” I whispered to Ayase-san next to me.</p>
<p>“I-I don’t know. It’s my first time seeing her like this too,” she whispered back.</p>
<p>Actually, I do remember seeing her get pretty excited when she came over to play video games with Ayase-san…</p>
<p>“Three balls, one strike. It’s a hitter’s count,” Yoshida mumbled.</p>
<p>Say what? I was about to ask when the distinct metallic ping of a high school baseball bat hitting a ball rang out. The crowd erupted in excitement as Maru’s hit shot between first and second base, rolling out into the outfield.</p>
<p>By the time the right fielder caught up to the ball, the runner on second base had rounded third and was sprinting for home. The outfielder, rather than attempting a risky throw to home, calmly tossed the ball to the second baseman.</p>
<p>Our runner dashed past home plate. One point!</p>
<p>The brass band played, and the cheering squad hugged each other in joy.</p>
<p>“They didn’t want to make the situation worse with a bad throw... They’re quite level-headed.”</p>
<p>“You know, Yoshida... you could be a commentator.”</p>
<p>“Leave it to me. I’ve never missed reading a baseball manga.”</p>
<p>So, manga was his source? Still, having Yoshida beside someone like me, who didn’t know jack shit was invaluable. I was glad to have invited him.</p>
<p>“We just scored a point, right?” Ayase-san asked.</p>
<p>“Yep. Look, the scoreboard displays it.”</p>
<p>I pointed towards the scoreboard in the outfield, where a [1] shone brightly.</p>
<p>“Oh, yeah.”</p>
<p>“Nice, nice! Keep it up!”</p>
<p>Class Rep was getting fired up.</p>
<p>But, the following Suisei High batters couldn’t maintain the pace. The bottom of the third inning concluded with just that single point, signaling a changeover.</p>
<p>Yoshida commented that the difference between us and Jyouryoku lay in the depth of their players.</p>
<p>Jyouryoku Academy boasted over a hundred members in their club, so they could pick the best talent from a vast pool of players. And the quality of those players was undeniably superior to Suisei High, which had less than half that number to pick from.</p>
<p>As the innings progressed, this difference became more apparent.</p>
<p>All the same, the score remained close until the fourth inning. The single point earned by Maru was soon tied in the next inning, it was a seesaw game where one side would score a point and the other would take it back straight after.</p>
<p>The balance shifted in the top of the fifth inning. Suisei High’s starting pitcher lost control of his pitches. He threw ball after ball, and Maru rushed to the mound to pat his shoulder, offering some words of encouragement. The pitcher nodded several times, but even from a distance, his face looked visibly pale.</p>
<p>“They might need to swap him out,” Yoshida murmured.</p>
<p>He said it was probably fatigue affecting the pitcher’s accuracy. But swapping out a pitcher might make a lot of sense for a team with a deep roster. For us, though, Yoshida said it doubtful whether Suisei High’s second-string pitcher could hold back Jyouryoku.</p>
<p>Without making a change, Suisei High found themselves with bases loaded due to walks.</p>
<p>“Ah, they’re making a change after all.”</p>
<p>As Yoshida said, a player came off the bench and ran to the umpire to tell him something. In high school baseball, it seemed coaches weren’t allowed to leave the bench, so players relayed instructions.</p>
<p>As the pitcher left the mound with his shoulders slumped, Maru whispered something into his ear. I noticed him wiping his eyes with his sleeve several times, and it made my chest hurt to see the tear-streaked face of the young player as he was pulled back to the bench. If they were to lose, his high school baseball memories would be of him walking off the mound.</p>
<p>Of course, the same could be said for the opposing team—such is the nature of sports, where one team’s glorious victory spells another’s bitter defeat. And so, we were left to chew on Yoshida’s words that the depth of the players would decide the game.</p>
<p>The new pitcher who replaced the starter struggled even more with control.</p>
<p>After three balls in a row, it made it a batter’s count, which means the batter is at an advantage (as explained by Yoshida).</p>
<p>The pitcher tried to nab a strike with a softer pitch, which the left-handed batter slammed towards right field. Groans rose up from Suisei High’s stands. The ball sped along the first-base line and rolled deep into right field. By the time the fielder reached it, all the runners had scored, resulting in a three-run double.</p>
<p>“Ahhh.”</p>
<p>Both Class Rep and Satou-san let out cries of disappointment.</p>
<p>I glanced at the scoreboard—[7-3].</p>
<p>“A four-point difference, huh…”</p>
<p>It was frustrating, but they were undeniably strong. They seized momentum the moment we showed any sign of weakness.</p>
<p>It took a while, but they finally got the third out. As our players trudged back to the bench with downcast faces, Maru yelled something at them, but with the brass band playing and the crowd’s cheers, it was impossible to catch what he said. Still, the players shook their heads, as if to shake off their doubts.</p>
<p>Before sitting down on the bench, Maru paused and looked back, glaring at the scoreboard.</p>
<p>“Maru...”</p>
<p>The bottom half of the inning began with Maru leading off. With no runners on base, Maru approached the plate. Shouts of encouragement flew at his back.</p>
<p>“MAAAARU! DO YOUR BEST!”</p>
<p>It was Narasaka-san’s voice. Her loud, clear shouting pierced through a brief lull in the brass band’s playing. It was impressively loud.</p>
<p>“Man, our cheer captain’s got some serious pipes on her…” Yoshida said in amazement.</p>
<p>It went to show she was very clearly the leader of the Narasaka cheering squad.</p>
<p>“On three!” I heard Class Rep say behind me—</p>
<p>“ “ “MARU-SAAAN! DO YOUR BESTTT!” ” ”</p>
<p>Class Rep, Satou-san, and Makihara-san all cheered in unison.</p>
<p>He must have heard it, because Maru looked back, his eyes scanning the stands for the source of the voices. Our eyes met—or at least, I thought they did. Was that… a grin on his face? Maru gave a confident thumbs-up before stepping into the batter’s box.</p>
<p>Taking his stance, Maru locked eyes with the opposing school’s ace pitcher. In that moment, his usually gentle gaze blazed with determination. That look was captivating. I was so wrapped up in watching Maru that I even forgot to breathe.</p>
<p>The pitcher, from atop the mound, began his wind-up, a sequence known as the wind-up motion, swinging his arm up high. With a dramatic leg lift and a backward lean, he channeled all his energy into his fingertips and unleashed the pitch. To my untrained eye, it looked incredibly fast. If I were faced with a pitch like that at a batting center, I doubt I could even graze it with a swing.</p>
<p>I followed the ball with my eyes all the way to Maru. It must’ve been just a split second, but with how zeroed in I was, it felt like everything was in slow motion. Maru drew his bat back and swung it with all his might at the ball hurtling towards his chest. A satisfying sound echoed out.</p>
<p>The ball arced through the air, landing just past the center fielder with a <em>thud</em>.</p>
<p>With powerful strides, Maru took off running. He dashed past first base and made it second before the ball was thrown back in. A double!</p>
<p>Suisei High’s cheer squad went ballistic.</p>
<p>“Amazing, amazing!”</p>
<p>“He did it!”</p>
<p>I felt a light tap on my hip. Turning, I was met with Ayase-san’s smiling face.</p>
<p>“That was great, wasn’t it?”</p>
<p>“Yeah…”</p>
<p>I dropped back into my seat. I didn’t even realize I had jumped up.</p>
<p>On second base, Maru struck a victory pose. That only fired up the crowd and cheering squad even more.</p>
<p>While they managed to score a point that inning, Suisei High gave up another in the top of the seventh. The pitcher they had brought in couldn’t keep the lead, and by then Suisei High simply didn’t have the energy to come back.</p>
<p>In the end, they lost eight-four to Jyouryoku Academy.</p>
<p>The umpire signaled the end of the game, and the last batter, who struck out, dropped to his knees in despair.</p>
<p>The opposing side’s stands were buzzing like a poked beehive.</p>
<p>The players lined up, exchanged bows, and started to leave the field. I saw Maru shedding tears of frustration along with his teammates, showing just how much the loss hurt.</p>
<p>The players formed a single line and came over to their supporters. They offered a deep bow of gratitude to the cheering squad, the brass band, the cheerleading team, the benched players, and their families who’d come out to support them. Applause rose up in response.</p>
<p>“Maaya...”</p>
<p>Following where Ayase-san was looking, I saw Narasaka-san. She’d rushed down to the front row and was just standing still, taking in the scene of the departing players. Though she’d cheered so loudly earlier, now she just silently stared without uttering a word. She seemed frustrated too, biting her lip. But that look vanished in an instant.</p>
<p>Turning towards the Narasaka cheering squad, she shouted, “Everyone! Let’s applaud their hard-fought effort! Ready? One, two, three!”</p>
<p>In response, shouts of “You did great!” and “Well done!” filled the air. With everyone cheering behind her, Narasaka-san joined in, shouting “Great job!” and giving the players a round of applause.</p>
<p>“It was an awesome game.”</p>
<p>Yoshida stood up and started clapping. Inspired, Makihara-san and others joined in. <em>I guess this is what they call a standing ovation.</em></p>
<p>“It was.”</p>
<p>I stood up too and clapped along with them.</p>
<p>We didn’t stop clapping until every single player had left the field.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p>We parted ways with everyone at the station.</p>
<p>Ayase-san and I walked side by side on our way back to our flat.</p>
<p>The sun sets around 7 pm this time of year. Even though it was starting to dip behind the buildings, the sky was still fairly blue and it was still warm out. Still, the thick, almost suffocating air felt a bit lighter. Walking like this wasn’t too uncomfortable.</p>
<p>But it seemed like I’d moved around more than I realized. I felt like that kind of sluggishness you get after getting out of a swimming pool.</p>
<p>“Are you tired?”</p>
<p>Ayase-san peered into my face as she walked beside me.</p>
<p>“Ah, no, not really... Well, maybe a bit.”</p>
<p>Ayase-san chuckled.</p>
<p>“Did I say something weird?”</p>
<p>“No, you didn’t. I just thought you weren’t aware of it.”</p>
<p><em>Huh?...What does that mean?</em></p>
<p>Ayase-san interlocked her fingers and stretched her arms above her head. Her slender, beautiful arms stretched towards the sky, her eyes half-closing as they were hidden by them. A little, “Nhh!” leaked out.</p>
<p>When she let her arms fall, her head drooped forward.</p>
<p>“<em>Haah</em>.”</p>
<p>“You seem pretty tired yourself.”</p>
<p>“Yeah. I guess I’m a bit tired.”</p>
<p>The nearest station to the stadium is just four stops from Shibuya, about a ten minute train ride. It’s not that far, but spending almost the entire day there would understandably wear <em>anyone</em> out.</p>
<p>We turned off the main street into a side alley. After rounding a corner into a residential area, the crowd of people thinned out. When we passed a lush green park, a refreshing breeze blew, and I couldn’t help taking a deep breath. How nice. Ayase-san’s long, flowing hair danced in the twilight breeze.</p>
<p>“Oh, by the way…”</p>
<p>Ayase-san looked at me curiously with a, “Hm?”</p>
<p>“Before we left the stadium, you went somewhere with Narasaka-san, didn’t you?”</p>
<p>Narasaka-san’s group was pretty big, and they said they were going to have an after-party. So after helping them clean up, our group left the stadium first. But, just before we left, it looked like Ayase-san and Narasaka-san went off somewhere together.</p>
<p>“Ah, yeah, for a little bit. It’s not really my business and it’s private, so can we not talk about it?”</p>
<p>“Ah... Got it.”</p>
<p>If it wasn’t Ayase-san’s business, it must’ve involved Narasaka-san or someone in Narasaka-san’s group. If she’s saying it’s private, I probably shouldn’t poke my nose in any further. Courtesy is important even among close friends.<a epub:type="noteref" id="footnotech11_1" href="#FTch11_1"><i><b>[1]</b></i></a></p>
<p>Being in a relationship doesn’t mean you have to share every single thing. But, I can’t help being curious.</p>
<p>At the edge of the park, a father and son were playing catch. The father looked completely spent, suggesting they wrap up, but the boy—who looked about elementary school age—energetically continued throwing the ball, refusing to stop. The boy was on summer break, but the father, presumably coming home from work given it was a weekday, must be exhausted.</p>
<p><em>Kudos to him.</em></p>
<p>“Did you ever do that with Taichi-san?” Ayase-san asked.</p>
<p>Apparently, she’d been watching them too.</p>
<p>“Playing catch?”</p>
<p>She nodded.</p>
<p>“Nah, I’ve always been more of a stay-at-home-and-read kind of kid.”</p>
<p>And I can’t remember a time when my old man made it home this early in the evening. He was always tied up with work. In a way, maybe his long hours led to my biological mother cheating on him.</p>
<p>Since marrying Akiko-san, sometimes he comes home really early. There were moments when, after taking a little detour on my way home, I’d find him already there, happily eating dinner with Akiko-san just before she headed off to work. Maybe that’s him trying to learn from past mistakes or something.</p>
<p>“My old man occasionally watches sports on TV. As for me, I’ve never really been into any.”</p>
<p>“Fair enough. But you seemed to know more about baseball than I did.”</p>
<p>“Maybe. My knowledge of baseball mainly comes from manga and novels, to be honest. There are fewer baseball mangas these days, or so I’ve heard. I might know a little more about soccer.”</p>
<p>“Oh really?”</p>
<p>“Having Yoshida around was a lifesaver. Whenever I didn’t understand something, I could ask him straight away.”</p>
<p>Oh right, Ayase-san mentioned it was her first time watching a baseball game, didn’t she?</p>
<p>“How was it for you, Ayase-san? Did you enjoy it?”</p>
<p>She paused for a second to consider my question.</p>
<p>“Yeah. It was fun. It’s nice to see people trying their hardest. Plus, some moments had me on the edge of my seat.”</p>
<p>“Well, it did kind of get a bit one-sided after a while.”</p>
<p>“How about you, Asamura-kun?”</p>
<p>“I guess I enjoyed it. And also…” I thought back to the game. “Seeing Maru like that was surprising. Almost like he was a completely different person.”</p>
<p>Ayase-san nodded in agreement.</p>
<p>“I see. So you’ve never seen Maru like that before either. I’ve met him a few times when I was with you, but I didn’t know he had that side to him.”</p>
<p>“Yeah, I get that. He always seems so composed. I s’pose it just goes to show how strong the other team was. It was rare seeing Maru so desperate. I got so caught up watching him that I got carried away too. Thinking about it now, I probably looked pretty stupid.”</p>
<p>It was something I said without much thought behind it, but—</p>
<p>“Does that mean you thought Maru looked stupid too?”</p>
<p>I was thrown for a loop by her question.</p>
<p>Images of Maru and his team, fighting desperately against odds stacked against them, flashed through my mind. Did I ever think they looked stupid or uncool?</p>
<p>“No, not at all. Not one bit.”</p>
<p>“So, if you were so into cheering him on, Asamura-kun, you probably didn’t look stupid either, wouldn’t you say?”</p>
<p>The sound of Ayase-san’s gentle encouragement resonated with the evening breeze sweeping through the park. The trees swayed, sending the soft rustling of leaves to my ears. It soothed my restless mind and brought back some peace.</p>
<p>“It’s just... I don’t know. I never saw myself getting so carried away like that.”</p>
<p>“Maybe it’s not that you think you looked uncool, but more like you’re just feeling a bit embarrassed?”</p>
<p>She clenched and unclenched her hand.</p>
<p>“I want to hold hands. That okay?”</p>
<p>It caught me off guard, and I couldn’t help looking down at my own hand. I suddenly became conscious of my sweaty palms. They felt clammier than usual. I hesitated, wondering what to do…</p>
<p><em>“Mm.”</em></p>
<p>Ayase-san firmly reached out her hand to me. At this point, there was no way I could back out.</p>
<p>I gently took hold of her hand.</p>
<p>We let our hands drop between us.</p>
<p>We’d stopped walking without realizing it, so we started moving forward again. Ayase-san chatted to me sporadically as we walked.</p>
<p>“You know, seeing you cheering your heart out like that, Asamura-kun—” Our intertwined hands swayed in rhythm. “I thought—you looked really cool.”</p>
<p>We walked slowly, matching our steps as we made our way home.</p>
<p>The warmth from my hand melded with hers, becoming a singular heat that pulsed between us.</p>
<p>“It’s a shame they lost, don’t you think?”</p>
<p>“Yeah.”</p>
<p>“I wonder what Maru-kun will do now. Does losing mean he can’t go pro?”</p>
<p>“I’m not sure... But I think even if they win, only a select few ever become professional players.”</p>
<p>“I don’t really know much about baseball, but I kinda got the sense Maru-kun was leading that team. The other players always seemed to be looking to him.”</p>
<p>“They were?”</p>
<p>“Maru-kun was always the last one to come out onto the field and the last one to go back in, right?”</p>
<p>Thinking about what she said, I realized she was right. Honestly, I wasn’t really paying attention, so I don’t remember everything. My most vivid memory is when Jyouryoku hit a double, sweeping the bases and suddenly gaining three points.</p>
<p>After giving the pitcher a pep talk and shouting some rallying words to the rest of his team, I definitely saw Maru walking behind everyone as he slowly made his way back to the bench.</p>
<p>I remember Maru once saying, “The catcher is the command tower of the team.” The catcher is the only position that can see the faces of all their team members during a game.Whether coming out onto the field or going back in, Maru must always be looking out for the entire team.</p>
<p>Before he sat back down on the bench, Maru glanced up at the scoreboard for a second. I distinctly remember the look on his face.</p>
<p>“Also, while the others were waiting for Maru-kun, they were always watching him. Both when he came out and when he went back in.”</p>
<p>“You’re really observant.”</p>
<p>Ayase-san might be much better at watching sports than I am. Since I wasn’t really paying much attention, I’m not sure if what she said was true. But it probably was.</p>
<p>“So, it’s like Maru was looking out for all the players, and the others were keeping an eye on Maru too, is that right?”</p>
<p>“I think they were relying on him. I mean, um... I think the other players could see Maru-kun’s seriousness and thought he looked cool.”</p>
<p>What she said made me remember something I thought during the sports festival. Expecting something “impressive” at a high school sports festival just isn’t right. And what does “cool” even mean in that context?<a epub:type="noteref" id="footnotech11_2" href="#FTch11_2"><i><b>[2]</b></i></a></p>
<p>Being impressive means being cool. It’s probably just that simple.</p>
<p>So, by that logic, are players who lose a game <em>un</em>cool?</p>
<p>I opened my free hand, closed it, then clenched it tight.</p>
<p>While watching the game, I found myself unconsciously clenching my fists. I even stood up without realizing it. The intensity and passion Maru brought to the game were so contagious that I was definitely swept up in it.</p>
<p><em>“I think the other players could see Maru-kun’s seriousness and thought he looked cool.” </em>That’s what Ayase-san said.</p>
<p>“I mean, I think everyone was taking it seriously, even the opposing players, but he had a way of getting that across and making it look cool, you know? Maybe when people saw that, they felt they could rely on him. Whether that’s normal or not, I don’t know, but he definitely led the entire team by showing that side of him.”</p>
<p>It was like Maru’s passion for baseball, in the way he played, even rubbed off on Ayase-san—someone who wasn’t interested in the sport.</p>
<p>“So, I’m sure there are plenty of other people who found him cool too. I mean, seeing someone so passionately engrossed in something like that, it’s hard not to find them cool. And I’m sure many others felt the same. In fact, I <em>know</em> some did.”</p>
<p>She added, “That’s a secret, though.”</p>
<p>She squeezed our intertwined hands and looked deep into my eyes.</p>
<p>“I don’t think it was all for nothing. I think it probably reached someone.”</p>
<p>“I hope so.”</p>
<p>Compared to someone like me—who’s resigned to staying in my comfort zone—Maru-kun had definitely taken a step towards something.</p>
<p>Before I knew it, the sky had turned a shade of crimson.</p>
<p>Looking at Ayase-san’s side profile bathed in the evening glow, I found myself uncharacteristically thinking, “I wish I could look cool in her eyes.”</p>
<p>Because I’m always hesitating, afraid to take a step forward.</p>
<hr class="sigil_split_marker"/>

<aside epub:type="footnote" id="FTch11_1">
      <p><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnotech11_1"><sup>[1]</sup></a> This is a Japanese proverb that emphasizes the importance of maintaining politeness and good manners even in close or familiar relationships. Politeness is a central pillar of Japanese society, so if you ever visit here, keep that in mind.</p>
    </aside>

<aside epub:type="footnote" id="FTch11_2">
      <p><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnotech11_2"><sup>[2]</sup></a> I’m not sure why the author is attributing these to Yuuta here, as it was Saki who thought it in her PoV. He might’ve thought the same, but it just wasn’t mentioned in the story. </p>
    </aside>

</body>
</html>